Introduction
Package math/rand provides support for generating pseudo-random numbers.

Here is how to generate a random integer between 0 and 99:

n := rand.Intn(100) // n is a random int, 0 <= n < 100
Function rand.Float64 returns a random floating point number between 0.0 and 1.0:

f := rand.Float64() // f is a random float64, 0.0 <= f < 1.0
There is also support for shuffling a slice (or other data structures):

x := []string{"a", "b", "c", "d", "e"}
// shuffling the slice put its elements into a random order
rand.Shuffle(len(x), func(i, j int) {
	x[i], x[j] = x[j], x[i]
})
Seeds
The number sequences generated by package math/rand are not truly random. Given a specific "seed" value, the results are entirely deterministic.

In Go 1.20+ the seed is automatically picked at random so you will see a different sequence of random numbers each time you run your program.

In prior versions of Go, the seed was 1 by default. So to get different sequences for various runs of the program, you had to manually seed the random number generator, e.g. with the current time, before retrieving any random numbers.

rand.Seed(time.Now().UnixNano())
Instructions
Elaine is working on a new children's game that features animals and magic wands. It is time to code functions for rolling a die, generating random wand energy and shuffling a slice.

Implement a GenerateWandEnergy function. The wand energy should be a random floating point number equal or greater than 0.0 and less than 12.0.

f := GenerateWandEnergy()  // f will be assigned a random float64, 0.0 <= f < 12.0

Stuck? Reveal Hints
Opens in a modal
The game features eight different animals:

ant
beaver
cat
dog
elephant
fox
giraffe
hedgehog
Write a function ShuffleAnimals that returns a slice with the eight animals in random order.


Stuck? Reveal Hints
Opens in a modal
How to debug
When a test fails, a message is displayed describing what went wrong and for which input. You can also use the fact that console output will be shown too. You can write to the console using:

import "fmt"
fmt.Println("Debug message")
Note: When debugging with the in-browser editor, using e.g. fmt.Print will not add a newline after the output which can provoke a bug in go test --json and result in messed up test output.